#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Creation of a database of mammograms
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The objectives stated in the previous chapter require a systematic analysis
 of mammograms.
 To date, there is no theoretical model that is able to capture the heterogeneit
y of appearance of breast parenchyma as present in real mammograms, not
 to mention the wide variety of phenotypes in the case of 
\emph on
in situ
\emph default
 or invasive lesions.
 In the past, authors have used collections of analog or digital mammograms
 to perform their experiments and validate their hypothesis.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Collections of mammograms can be widely grouped in two categories: private
 and public.
 The most commonly used are private collections, mainly because it is not
 always acceptable to share medical images even when anonymity is assured.
 The principal drawbacks of private collection are that it is not possible
 for other authors to reproduce the results or to make valid comparisons
 when using a different collection.
 On the other hand, a private collection has remarkable advantages: all
 the acquisition parameters are known or retrievable, patients can be contacted
 for information completion or follow-up after treatment, it is relatively
 easy to retrieve lab exams or even biopsy samples, and it is always possible
 to increase the size of the sample when needed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In an effort to overcome the limitations of private collections, some authors
 have made publicly available their mammogram collections.
 In order for a public collection to be useful for third-party researchers,
 it is requires to include relevant patient information such as age or menopausa
l status, radiologic findings, and final diagnosis.
 These classifications provide a ground truth that would allow other researchers
 to adequately train their systems, and more importantly would allow fair
 comparisons between systems from various authors.
 The principal disadvantage of public collections is that the amount of
 information available is commonly bounded by the hypothesis of the publishing
 author, potentially impeding the validation of other hypothesis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
